>> Kyle Simpson: Our next topic
of discussion is closure.
How many of you ever either had or
given or
both the job interview
question what is closure?
Anybody?
Okay, I see a few hands maybe some
people online will resonate with that.
I For a long time before becoming
a teacher, I've been a developer now for
about 20 years, so I've only been
teaching the last five or so.
So for 15 years, I was just a software
developer sitting exactly in your shoes,
I worked at consultancies and all that.
But I for quite a while was
the JavaScript expert if there
is such a thing on whatever team I was on.
So the jobs that I bounced around to,
I just naturally gravitated to
I'll be the JavaScript expert.
And what that equated to was well hey, we
need you to come in and vet this candidate
figure out if they really know what
they are talking about with JavaScript.
They sure say something on their
resume but do they really know it and
I was pretty good at that vetting people.
With the job interview questions and
I countless times asked this question,
what is closure?
Tell me about closure,
tell me an example of using closure
in your code some variation thereof.
[COUGH] Most of the answers that I
would get would range somewhere around,
it has to do with asynchronous callbacks,
click handlers, timers, things like that.
And I would say okay, let me prompt
you to give me something more, right?
What exactly does that mean?
Yes, we know that asynchronous
callbacks happen in code, but
what does it mean to have closure?
And when pressed most people didn't have
much more to articulate on the topic.
They've heard of closure but never really
processed in their mind what it was.
Closure I think can be said
to be if not one of them,
if not the most certainly in the top 2 or
3 most important Concepts,
most prevalent concepts ever
invented in all of computer science.
One of the original ones, actually,
it's been around since very,
very early days of programming.
There is a talk that
Doug Crockford gave at one point,
he was talking about this topic.
He was gonna introduce closure and
he was talking in the general
sense about anytime a really
truly great idea gets invented.
He would assert that historically,
it always takes a full
generation of programmers before
that truly great idea catches on.
And he gave several examples of that,
but his somewhat tongue and
cheek explanation for
why it takes so long for
a great idea to catch on is that all of
the existing crew are resistant to change.
They like things the way they are.
They don't see any reason
why we need to change.
And so we basically just have to wait
around long and if for them to retire or
die off Before the new
crowd can come in and
say hey this great thing
is what we ought to do.
There's a little bit of truth to that, but
obviously it's a little bit overboard.
But then he goes on to say, and this is to
the point of closure, he goes on to say
we know that closure is truly great cuz
it took two full generations to catch on.
If you think back historically to
where this came from in JavaScript,
closure was kind of one of the original
ideas that landed in JavaScript.
And it was,
the idea behind it was actually
there from pretty much from day one.
We couldn't observe that until
a few editions later, so
it was a couple of years before you
could really observe and truly.
Use closure to any power, but at the time,
there really weren't that many,
if any mainstream consumer oriented
languages that had closure in them.
We had Pearl, you could argue
around the same time, 95, 96, 7.
Pearl was coming into its own, and
Pearl definitely introduced closure,
you could argue that it was
a rival in that respect.
But I would say JavaScript certainly
now looking back has captured
more of that mainstream consumer developer
space than even something like plural.
And certainly if you compare it to
the main consumer languages of the day,
like the C++s and the Javas of the world.
Those language didn't have closure.
They didn't need it,
they were very class oriented, procedural,
structural, we didn't need closure.
You didn't really do functional
programming in a sense there, so
why would we need something like closure?
And JavaScript had this amazing insight.
I wasn't there when Bryan and Ike decided
this, but I know that he said that his
influence for JavaScript was most
directly the Scheme programming language.
And he wanted to put Scheme in
the browser, and Netscape was like,
yeah that sounds great, come work for us.
And as soon as he showed up,
they were like no,
we're not putting Scheme in the browser.
And so he's like, well, How do I do my
favorite language that I like in Scheme?
How do I get those
concepts into the browser?
So we developed this language
that looks like Java,
because that's what they told him,
they said make it look like Java.
But under the covers it really
is more related to Scheme,
a functional programming language, so
he laid the foundation for closure.
In those earliest days of java script and
I think that was a unique
almost accidental genius.
A stroke of genius to
marry this procedural or
even class object oriented syntax
with these functional concepts.
Really I think one of the first mainstream
if not the first mainstream language to
do so and truly embody the idea
of a multiparadigm language.
And when I came along a few
years later in about 1998 or so,
when I came along a few years later.
What was most interesting to me about
JavaScript was not the fact that it was in
the browser, but the fact that
it was a multiparadigm language.
That was fascinating to me and
not specifically that you could
do any pattern that you wanted.
You could do procedural,
object oriented, or functional.
It's not that you could do that,
but you could actually mix and
match those different paradigms
within the same program.
And I found that to be fascinating,
because ultimately, I like to consider,
I get accused a lot of being
sort of an ivory tower.
I'm disconnected from reality cuz all I
do is teach but I write a lot of code and
I spend a lot of time in your shoes and
I like to consider myself
ultimately a pragmatist.
And what I liked about multi-paradigm
is that I didn't have to choose,
I could pick which one was correct for
any given situation.
And I think that was and
definitely still is one of
JavaScript's strong points,
is that it doubled down or
it made a big bet on this idea of closure.
When we fast forward 22 years and
if you survey the landscape of major
programming languages pretty much every
major programing language in existence.
Certainly, all the consumer orientated
ones, they all have closure.
Java added closure, PHP added closure.
We have Ruby and Python that came along,
they all have closure.
Every main stream language
out there has closure.
Even ones that we wouldn't have
thought of, like C++ for example.
It has closure in it because it turns
out it's actually a pretty great idea.
Turns out it's so
powerful that we can implement so
many other things on top of it.
It is highly prevalent and
certainly for the functional program,
closure is at the heart
of everything that we do.
Pretty much everything that we do.
We've already been using a bunch of
closure up to this point in the code
snippets that we've been doing and you
might not just have realized what it was.
So the next time you either give or
get asked that interview question,
what is closure?
Call me crazy, but I'd love for
you to have a very specific,
articulate answer to that question.
Cuz it's a real thing that can
actually be recognized and
studied and used and understanding
what you're talking about instead of,
you know it's about call backs.
Not only I think it will help you get
the job but I think it will help you
write better code if you understand
what you're talking about.
So, I wanna give you a definition for
closure that you can feel free to use
the next time you got asked that question.
Or feel free to ask this of others and
use this as the standard to measure by,
it is not the academic definition for
closure.
If you go on Wikipedia and
you try to study what is closure,
you're gonna get a whole variety
of different descriptions for
things and they may or
may not line up in various parts.
Your mileage may vary, as they say, but
this is the most distilled down pragmatic
definition that I've been able to come up
with for what closure is in my experience.
And it's based purely on what
we can observe about closure.
Philosophically, it's just like the if
the tree falls in the forest and
no one's around to hear it, thing.
We all know what this is, right?
Does it make a sound?
Well, if a closure exists academically,
but there's no way to
observe that closure,
does it actually matter whether it exists?
I would say not really, so
I choose to define closure based upon how
we can observe it being different and
observation is a really key point here.
Because you're going to see that closure
has been in all the code that you have
been writing.
If you have been writing JavaScript for
any length of time at all
you have certainly used closure
even if you didn't realise it.
So it's not like we're creating a new
pattern that you have to come up with and
invent and figure out how to use.
But rather, help you identify,
help you be sensitive to
observe that as you use it in your
programs and to use it on purpose.
To use it intentionally and
to avoid accidentally having it
do stuff that you don't want.
There's also a pretty good chance that
some of you have had bugs in your program
directly related to closure and
you may not have realized that that was
the problem.
>> Kyle Simpson: So let's have a good,
clear definition for closure, here it is.
Closure is when a function remembers
the variables around it even when that
function is executed elsewhere.
>> Kyle Simpson: What
do I mean by remember?
I mean that a function that acts
as a variable outside of itself.
If you then take that function and you
run it over here in some other entirely
different lexical scope, it still has
access to that variable from this scope.
It can still update it, read from it,
it still is a live linkage back to that
variable, even though it's
executing in a different scope.
If you think about it, that maps to
what those interview question responses
I get are when somebody says, well it has
something to do with an event handler.
Well yeah,
if you've written a click handler before,
anybody ever written a click handler?
And you put a function
in your click handler,
you probably referenced some variable,
or object, or
function from inside of that click handler
that was in the scope where you set it up.
But did you ever stop to wonder,
when that click handler runs,
it's running in an entirely
different location.
How does it still have access to the stuff
that, actually that stuff we think,
you know, conceptually, it should have
been garbage collected long before now.
But it didn't get garbage collected,
it still has access to it and
the answer to the question of,
how is that possible?
Closure is what keeps that access alive,
it prevents things from
being garbage collected.
That otherwise would be garbage collected
so that function maintains that linkage,
that access to it no matter where it goes.
When you write a function and
you reference a variable
outside in some outer scope.
The entirety of the lifetime of that
function it will maintain that closure.
You didn't have to do anything
extra to make it happen just
reference the variable and
the closure will be created for you.
In a sense closure is
a natural extension or
almost a requirement for a language that
has lexical scope which JavaScript does.
And a language that has functions
as values which JavaScript does.
If a function is a value that
can be passed around and
a function references its variables
lexically, that is up the scope chain.
That language virtually has to have
closure for it to make any sense.
It's not an accident that in
languages like for example PHP,
I can talk about that since I
have some experience in PHP.
I remember writing PHP
before they had closure and
then I remember writing it
after they had closure.
And the major difference between
the two was that all of a sudden in
PHP that had closure functions were
values that could be passed around.
That was not the case before.
Now they are values that can be passed
around, if a function is a value and
its lexically scoped you've
got to have closure.
It would make no sense,
it would be nonsensical to have
a function referencing a variable.
In this location and it runs here fine but
if you take and run it over here all of
the sudden it's forgotten about that
variable, that'd be nonsensical.
So that's why I say closure
is built into the very
core of how our scope mechanisms and
our functions as values work.
Anytime you've done a click in or
anytime you've done a set time out,
anytime you've done an Ajax call and
received a response back.
All of those are scenarios where you
virtually certainly were using closure
to access stuff after the fact
>> Kyle Simpson: Instead of me telling you
some brand new thing, it's a little bit
more like Neo in the first Matrix movie.
In the first Matrix movie,
when Neo is gonna see the matrix or
when he's revealed the matrix.
When they show him the matrix for
the first time,
they're not showing him
something that's brand new.
They're showing him something
that's been there the whole time,
and he just couldn't observe it,
that's what's happening here.
You're seeing something that has been
true of your program all along, and
now you have a way to observe it
when you think about a function
that accesses a variable
outside of itself.
Here's one of those examples
from earlier in our discussion.
The unary utility,
the thing that takes a function and
makes a new function that's restricted,
where's the closure here?
Well, the closure's
right there with the fn.
We pass in an fn, we return back an inner
function, this one's called one.
And I want you to think about when that
function from line 2 gets returned and
we store that off in some variable
like the variable g, for example.
That g, if we run it at some point, when
we run it, is it in fact not in a totally
different scope than scope of
the unary utility in line 1?
When it runs,
it's in a totally different scope nd yet,
it still has access to that variable.
How does it have access?
Closure, you didn't have
to do anything special.
You just made an inner function,
used a variable outside of itself.
The closure came along for free.
>> Kyle Simpson: I
want to put a little bug in the back of
your mind here because we're gonna get
more into this in a little bit.
Do you think the unary utility is pure?
>> Kyle Simpson: Given the same function
as an input, will it always produce
the same wrapped function output?
>> Kyle Simpson: I have a high degree of
confidence that the unary utility given
the same input would produce the same kind
of output.
What about the output function itself?
The function one, is that a pure function?
>> Kyle Simpson: It seems
pretty straightforward, right?
We're passing in an arg and
passing that arg along to fn.
The only way that fn could get redefined
if it was redefined somewhere between line
one and a half and line two and a half.
Does everybody see that?
Those are the only lines in the entire
program that could possibly reassign fn.
Fn is not actually a constant,
we don't have the const keyword there but
just by virtue of the way
this code is written.
It doesn't get reassigned does it?
It's not even possible to reassign, so
I ask again what's your level of
confidence that the one function
is gonna behave as a pure function?
>> Speaker 2: High.
>> Kyle Simpson: High degree of
confidence.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: Goodness,
quiet folks today.
I set you up for success,
I told you the answer.
High degree of confidence,
that this function
one will produce the same outputs,
because nobody can redefine fn.
Nobody does and nobody can that's
a pretty high degree of confidence.
So that was why it was important earlier
for us to expand our definition of
function purity to include the ability to
reference something outside of ourselves.
Because if functions to be pure couldn't
reference anything outside of themselves,
we couldn't use closure, could we?
Do you see where I'm coming from here?
Closure requires us using
variable outside of ourselves.
And closure is super important to
functional programming Ergo we have to
have a definition for function purity
that accounts for using variables
that are lexically outside.
>> Kyle Simpson: Otherwise
closure would be inconsistent with
functional programming principles,
and there's a whole bunch of functional
programming that would come crashing down.
Most of it.
Now, if on line one and
a half there was something that did,
you know, reassign fn or
something like that,
well then all of a sudden things get
a little bit more interesting, right.
All of a sudden we start to say I
don't have as much confidence in
the behavior anymore.
So it's all about the context here,
but this is a usage of closure
which is entirely consistent with
the principles of function purity.
Here's another example.
You remember compose write?
Doing the same thing,
now we're closing over two different
variables, same principle applies.
We're able to reference that fn1 and
fn2 and
this is safe,
comp is reliably a pure function or
will reliably behave as a pure function
because nobody reassigns fn1 or fn2.
If they did that could be a problem.